Welcome to Cloud Native Compass,
a podcast to help you navigate the vast
landscape of the cloud native ecosystem.
We're your hosts. I'm David Flanagan, a technology
magpie that can't stop playing with new shiny
things. I'm Laura Santa Maria, a forever learner
who is constantly breaking production. So, apparently,
Cloud Run is better than BigQuery.
That is according to principal engineer at ChainGuard,
Jason Hall.
In this episode, we get to chat with
Jason about ChainGuard's migration from Kubernetes
and Knative
to Cloud Run for a pillar of their
infrastructure.
And in this episode, we didn't even mention
Rust
until we did because Laura brought it up.
Well, you know, I had to do it.
Enjoy
this episode, and try to spot the deepfake,
Jason.
Welcome to the episode.
We have a wonderful guest with us. Jason,
would you like to introduce yourself?
Yeah. Hi. I'm, I'm Jason Hall. I work
at ChainGuard. I'm a I'm an engineer. I
do all kinds of stuff,
generally back end related.
Also, a lot of image building stuff. That's
kind of what we do there.
Yeah.
I mean the place. I've known you for
all of five minutes, and, clearly, you're an
awesome person. So we're very excited to have
you.
Yeah. Five minutes. I can I can learn
about some of you in five minutes?
Yeah. I've known him for longer, so I
know better. Right?
Yeah. Yeah.
Seven minutes. No. I'm about yeah.
No. I have
we followed each other at socials for a
long time, and I've always always loved the
work that you put out. And what prompted
this conversation today is an article that you
published to the ChainGuard blog about
a migration,
some cloud adoption, containers, and Cloud Run. And
we're gonna touch on all of these different
aspects.
But I I I I love your your
simple introduction. I'm an engineer that does stuff,
back end stuff stuff. I mean Generally. They
don't let me touch the front end.
Oh, okay. I know that feeling. Usually, I
touch prod, everything breaks on purpose. Yeah. It's
what I tell everybody.
You know? I've done some tailwinds last week.
Like, does that make me feel stagnant?
Yes. Yes. Yes. Does. Alright.
Awesome. So I think just to provide a
little bit of context before we dive in
to like the Kubernetes, the containers and the
cloud run is like you have a career
behind you that required or I don't know
if it required you had some time at
Google along with other chain guard engineers. Right?
So the context here is is that you've
been working with containers in Kubernetes
for a while. Is that is that a
safe assumption?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I
while I was at Google, I worked on
the Google Cloud Build product.
I started that team with a couple other
folks. So that was sort of my introduction
to containers in the first place was how
to build them as a service.
I learned a lot. I made a lot
of mistakes as everyone does,
and they hired me at ChainGuard anyway.
So,
a lot of a lot of folks from
Google,
came over to ChainGuard, and and
our focus there is also building containers, you
know, as well as possible, as quickly as
possible, serving them as well as possible. A
bunch of folks were from the Google,
container registry team also. So,
yeah, a bunch of folks there dealing with
both build building containers and running containers to
serve them.
Yeah. I mean, the the reason I bring
this up, right, and I don't wanna condense
your articles out into one sentence, but I'm
gonna do it anyway, is that ChainGuard couldn't
be arsed with Kubernetes anymore. I mean, that's
what it boils down to. Right?
I I I might I might temper that
a little bit, but but sure. Right? Like,
we found that we were not taking full
advantage
of all of the features that Kubernetes provides
such that it was worth the
maintenance and and upkeep and, you know, general
stuff. You know, like, if it if it
gave us if we were using every feature
of Kubernetes, it would have been worth it
to stay there. We ended up mostly running
a bunch of stateless services talking to, you
know, Cloud SQL and,
r two for Blob storage and a bunch
of, like, off cluster services. So we were
basically just running a bunch of stateless services
inside of Kubernetes, which can be nice, but
we
weren't, you know, we weren't finding it to
be useful for all that Kubernetes brought to
us. So
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean and you were also saying that
you had a lot of spiking traffic, and
you were running Knative,
really. Right?
So Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So the the lineage
of the of the engineering team is also
a lot of you know, Matt and some
other folks at started
Knative with many other folks, not just not
just them.
And so
they were deeply, you know, involved in it
and knew how it worked and knew how
it worked well and where it where it
didn't work well.
And Knative wasn't really the problem. I think
that, you know, generally, it was it was
that
I I I think that Knative is sort
of, like, the nice deployment API. It's just
it's just a good deployment API. I mean,
not just, but
so Knative was never the problem. And Knative
actually made it easier for us to move
to Cloud Run because they had the sort
of same API and container contract and and
all of that. So,
yeah, Knative was never really the problem, and
Kubernetes wasn't really the problem. The GKE wasn't
really the problem. It was that we were
not using all the stuff that,
Kubernetes would let us do. Mhmm. Just we
were just running a bunch of stateless services.
Yeah.
And there's a there's an easier way to
do that, it turns out. Right. And I
also saw in in the article,
as David eventually hopefully will return and rejoin
us.
I also saw in the article, though, that
you all were basically
instead of having spot instances, you were having
to maintain servers running and maintain nodes running
and things like that because you had a
lot of spiking traffic,
but you couldn't Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you
kinda were stuck with it with all this
all this infrastructure that you weren't really using
unless you had a major spike in something,
and that really doesn't make much sense if
you're doing a lot of stateless systems.
So Yeah. So our our traffic is
is very spiky.
And and like I mentioned in the in
the article,
a lot of that traffic just comes from
us. Like, we we tried our our main
thing is we're just trying to build images
as quickly and as fast as possible. Right?
But in doing that, we also have to
push them to the registry and then pull
them again to scan them and pull them
again to test them. And so when a
new image is built, there's, like, a little
mini flurry of activity around it on the
on the back end on the infrastructure.
Multiply that by an ever increasing number of
images,
and, basically, we'd had, like you know, over
time, these spikes got bigger.
In
order to absorb those spikes, we
kept it you know, did the the normal
thing you do, which is to keep a
warm pool of nodes and instances ready Right.
To absorb them,
which,
you know, you can turn the dial between,
like, cost and reliability.
We we turned it we turned it towards
cost and reliability. Or sorry. Raising cost and
raising reliability.
But we knew that if,
if sort of that trend was gonna keep
going,
we would need to
figure out a cheaper way to do that
sort of thing. Yeah. And,
again, we had we had a lot of
folks that already, you know, knew Cloud Run,
worked on Cloud Run, worked in near Cloud
Run. And so we we,
from the start, it sort of thought that
was a good idea
to migrate toward.
I don't know if you noticed, but I
had to rejoin.
My
limits crashed as it always fucking does.
So if my question now seems to take
us on a weird tangent, it's not intentional.
It's just because I missed about forty forty
five No.
No. I I was I was gonna put
my serious face on for a moment. Right?
Because I I was very dismissive of of
Kubernetes at the start. Saying that you you
could be ours, but but, you know, you
know, something
I mean, something I feel very guilty of
is I go to conferences and meet people
and say, you know, Kubernetes gives you all
this stuff for free, but there is a
very real tax to running and operating a
Kubernetes cluster.
And I feel like that is meaning yeah.
If you're not using the whole thing, like
you were saying, you know, sometimes that tax
isn't worth the burden. And I think that's
an important lesson for people to walk away
with is, like, you know, know what you're
getting into. Even the people that have all
of this experience in containers and Kubernetes sometimes
just don't want to pay that tax for
what they need.
I don't
know if it was mentioned, but Cloudron is,
you know, is a fantastic product. I run
a bunch of things on it myself, and
then, you know, we can dive into that
in more detail. But I think similarly, like,
it it also Kubernetes also gives you a
lot of knobs to tune and optimize things,
which is great, which is great when you
are at, you know, a level of scale
that you need to tune and optimize those
things and have the expertise and the sort
of, you know, interest and and time to
prioritize that.
We didn't take advantage of most of those
knobs, and in fact, most of those knobs
were,
like,
hard hard for us to, like, know how
to use correctly, I think, or at least
me. So
we didn't really use a lot of them.
We wanted a simpler
just run the stateless service, scale it up
as you see fit type of thing, and
that was that was exactly what Cloud Run
was for us.
Yeah. So I am curious. Right? Obviously, we're
while we're talking about the migration from your
blog and we'll put the link to this
in the show notes for anyone who's listening
in the description for anyone watching on YouTube.
But
this is for your chain guard public registry.
Right? This is serving infrastructure that delivers images
to people.
Do you have other infrastructure that is still
running Kubernetes,
or is you know, is this, like, your
main operational
project?
Yeah. I'd say there there are, roughly speaking,
as of right now, three
infrastructure y type things we run.
One is,
serving serving images and and everything that it
takes to serve images, auth,
data store,
a lot of, like, eventing and pubsub,
internal stuff,
to to do stuff when stuff happens.
That's that's the, the first pillar is, like,
sort of, I'll call it serving, and that's
what this this blog post was about and
our migration to Cloud Run was about.
We also have a a bundle of infrastructure
for building packages. At ChainGuard, we build every
package from source
ourselves.
And so when a new, you know, Python
release drops,
we build that Python release and and build
an APK that ends up in an image.
That infrastructure does still run on Kubernetes, and
I think we get a lot of benefit
from Kubernetes. We use all those knobs. We
use all the you know, we use all
of the features that that, are in there.
So that second one package builds is still
in Kubernetes.
The third one is image builds. So when
we build an image from these packages,
we take you know, the Python image contains
both the Python package and,
you know, CA certs and
lib crypto and things like that. We take
these distinct packages and put them into an
image and push them. That
infrastructure is mostly,
at some part, just HTTP
and TAR. Like, we just fetch APKs,
stitch them together into images, and then push
them,
and then test them and then scan them
and do a bunch of stuff downstream. So
the three of them sort of. And then
when it pushes it, it pushes it to
the serving infrastructure. So all three are sort
of living together
next to each other, dependent on each other.
But,
yeah, the package build infrastructure still uses Kubernetes.
It's very it's very reliant on it. It
takes, you know, I think, full advantage of
all of the stuff that Kubernetes gives us,
but the serving infrastructure
wasn't really. And so, we moved that one
to Cloud Run.
Makes sense. Thanks.
You did something with Cloud Run, I believe
it now does that out of the box,
but I'm assuming your efforts predate that, which
is the ability to do multi region deployment.
So maybe you could go into that and
and tell us you know, because you're using
r two as, like, the the blob storage
that powers the serving infrastructure.
That is
powered by Cloudflare, distributed around the world, lowered
and latency to first pay for all your
customers. So having multi region deployments makes a
lot of sense. So how about you kinda
dive into how you did the architecture that
deployed it? Yeah. Yeah. So
the the multi region cloud run service
module that we have
is basically a wrapper around run this cloud
run service in three regions, right, or in
n regions.
As far as I know and and that
does predate the
Cloud Run providing this feature by itself.
As far as I know and if someone
from the Cloud Run team is is screaming
at this, telling me that I'm wrong, I
think
that the the Cloud Run feature of a
global service is basically,
like,
syntactic sugar around run three
regional you know, ran regional versions of this,
and
you can stitch them together with GCLB or
load balance across them. So
our
Terraform module for this
and Cloud Run's feature, I think, are more
or less the same architecture of, like, I
wanna run this. I wanna run this in
three places, and I want GCLB to figure
out which one is closest to the user.
We
a lot of our services
so the registry, for instance, when you when
you ask to pull an image,
we
route that to the closest region to you.
So if you're on the West Coast, it
will West Coast of The US, it will
hit the West Coast replica.
It will do some sort of off check
and say, oh, you're David. I know you.
You're allowed to pull this image. And then
it will, as quickly as possible, redirect you
to r two to get that blob.
We want you off of our lawn as
quickly as possible. We want you to be,
you know, talking to r two, pulling that
blob
without us doing anything. So
as much as is possible, we'd like to
handle that request as close to you as
possible, do as little work as possible in
as little time as possible, and then say,
your blob's in R 2. Go get it
from them. Right.
Yeah. But as far as I know that
the the Cloud Run global service feature is,
you know, infrastructure
and niceness around
run the same thing in three places.
Mhmm. Yeah. I I actually deployed my first
native
multi region cloud run a couple of weeks
ago. And I was disappointed to see that
I got three different URLs back for each
deployment, and then had to manually go and
configure my own load balancing for it. So
I think it's still very early. I mean,
it's still it's either alpha or beta. I
got it's very early for what they're doing,
and I don't think all of the the
niceties are quite there yet. But I you're
I think you're right. It's the same model
that you've done with your Terraform module, Only
probably a little bit better because you have
a open source Terraform module that other people
can can go steal into this themselves as
well.
And if if the, you know, if the
Cloud Run
as the Cloud Run product improves,
there's nothing in about our Terraform modules that
requires them to be done this way. If
there is a, you know, global Cloud Run
service resource, we would just use that. You
know? And and I think
for the most part, depending on a lot
of details, like,
things would just work. I think the the
next time you Terraform apply, it would just
become
a global service or whatever. But
yeah. Right.
Well, I'm assuming the way that this works
is, like, you get sort of the networking
layer. It's probably like an Anycast IP or
maybe it does DNS for the the written
to the lowest latency. Right? I think it
is just like the serving Cloud Run function
is just a piece of Go code that
signs an r two URL and then you're
handing off. Right? That's what you said. You
wanna out of that as soon as possible
with the with the caller. So Yeah. Yeah.
We do we do, you know, off checks
and and as whatever we need to do
to make sure that you're allowed to get
this r two URL, and then we generate
a signed URL for you and redirect.
That's also be cut not just for latency,
not just to get you to the to
r two as fast as possible.
But if we serve from r two, then
it's zero egress. Like, egress is free.
So we don't want to, like, proxy that
that, blob through our service because then we
would pay, you know, egress for that. So
we just say,
you're good. We know you. Go go talk
to R two and get your get your
blob from them.
Yeah. The zero egress fees is so appealing
with r two. I feel like they're doing
a rug pull that at any minute, and
I hope not any minute soon because I
just uploaded a terabyte video to it that
I wanna start, you know, pitching on my
website.
But I I I just especially in today's
day and age, right, where every major cloud
provider is charging us through the nose for
egress, and cloud's there just sitting there. I'm
like, yeah. We don't care. You know, as
long as it goes direct through R two
or their CDN, they they they they don't
care.
That's why I I definitely,
agree that it feels too good to be
true, and maybe it will turn out to
be too good to be true. But for
now, I'm I'm very happy that it exists.
And Yeah. I'm happy to I'm happy to
sit on this rug for now. Let's see
how it goes. Yeah. It it kinda makes
you wonder what exactly is going on underneath
the covers or underneath the rug, I guess,
you could say, that's making this a good
business decision
somewhere down the line because
you know? Is it just because someone really,
really, really, really, really wants to twist the
knife
on, like, AWS or somebody just saying like,
See,
this is what we can do that you
can't do it. Or is it, like, honestly,
they're going to use it to push some
other product out there? I don't know. It's
just kind of an interesting question
how they're doing it and why they're doing
it. Because, yeah, doesn't I think when you're
a Cloudflare, right, and you've got probably every
enterprise company in the world paying the big
money for the top end that I mean,
the Egress transfer on this and the storage
means nothing. I I'm assuming. Right? I don't
know anything about Cloudflare internally, but I'm assuming
they're just like, yeah. You know? I mean,
Google and AWS are probably paying them a
ton of money for other stuff. So, like
Yeah. So if there's a Cloudflare
Go ahead.
Oh, sorry. My my understanding of how, like,
network
egress billing works anyway is that, like, Google
and Amazon don't pay that much
to be able to shift boot bits around.
Right. Right? They just feel like charging you
a bunch for it. Right. And Cloudflare also
doesn't get charged that much to move the
bits around. They just don't feel like charging
you for it, which, you know, it's not
like they're losing money on it, I think.
I hope. Right. There are a lot of
there are competition in our on as well.
You know? Bunny.net
is a CDN with zero egress fees or
very, very competitive egress fees. Civo Cloud started
doing zero egress fees. So maybe it will
have a knock on effect, but I I
don't want us to start going down that
rabbit hole and talking about something else. Just
I will just stay I want a picture
started. If if there is a Cloudflare person
who works on this who's listening and feels
like coming onto a podcast,
maybe reach out. We're kinda curious.
Anyway,
but
kinda wanna switch a little bit because I
noticed that you had been talking a lot
about,
basically, about leased access
as you were building out these close no.
Well, they're not clusters.
Services,
I guess, for lack of a better term.
So your service account is very, very minimal,
and then everything is working. And I'm kind
of reading the article as we're talking. I
you're doing explicit authorization and doing all of
the really, really good things that are good
security practices.
Was this was this a problem to kind
of figure out with as you move off
of Kubernetes systems that are a little more
designed to work together,
figuring out the architecture to make that
that service
system work?
I'm curious. Mostly as someone who hasn't really
done a whole lot of going back and
forth between Kubernetes cluster and serverless functions. Usually,
I'm just running serverless stuff. I'm not doing
both at the same time, so I'm curious
how that works.
Yeah. The
the first thing you mentioned that the having,
like, in our service
module, the service account has no permissions by
default. You have to explicitly grant it Right.
You know, every every permission.
That
I totally understand why Cloud Run by the
like, the regular Cloud Run service comes with
a regular service account that has, I think,
fairly broad permissions. Like, for people onboarding to
your service, you don't want to say, like,
in the five minutes I have your attention,
first, figure out IAM and what exact, you
know, permissions this thing needs.
Oh, where are you going? Where are you
leaving? You know?
So they they, by default, give you a
a, I think, a very powerful service account
to run with by default,
which totally makes sense for onboarding and and
new users.
But then that's terrible when you generally, the
route that goes is you onboard one service
with a bunch of permissions. You onboard five
more. You onboard 30 more.
And then you realize, oh my god. Everything
has permission to do everything, and this is,
you know, somebody in security notices and makes
you, fix that after the fact. Right.
Ask me how I know about this,
this this route of how things go. So
we very early on decided, like, if we're
gonna migrate to this thing, we wanna do
it right from the start. We wanna, like
you know,
there is no way to get this super
powerful service account on this service without explicitly
saying, like, yeah, this should be able to
do everything,
which none of them ever do. Nothing ever
needs all those things. So Sure. We in
the in the list of in the modules
in that repo, there is a
couple of things. One is, authorize a service
to call another service. So given two services,
you can say, like, this service here is
allowed to talk to this service here.
And
one really clever thing, which which I think,
Matt did was the only way to get
an address to the destination service
is to call the authorize this service module.
So if a needs to call b,
there is a way around you can, like
you know, the easiest way to get the
the address for b is to call the
authorized service module.
And as a result, the output of that
is the address for b. So if you're
trying to call b
and you're like, how do I find b?
You find it by authorizing the and and
so therefore, like, you know, as a as
a fun as a fun, like, side effect,
you have also explicitly authorized a to call
b,
which is
very nice and,
something we take advantage of a lot.
The other thing is, like so so,
that's, like, service to service,
communication
and and authorization.
If there's a service that needs to talk
to KMS
or to get a cloud secret or to,
you know, make a request to a cluster
or anything like that.
Because when you create the service, you also
have to create the service account that runs
in there. You have the handle to say,
like, okay. This thing that's running the service
is going to also need permission to read
a secret, permission to, you know, sign with
KMS,
as opposed to create a service and then
try to figure out what service account it
had or, you know, like, find the auto
created one and
and and twiddle its permissions.
I think that's just sort of a nice
it,
a lot of things in there were were
done
thoughtfully to make the default
thing you do secure.
Like, not just for secure defaults, but so
that also that, like, the easiest path
to get your job done is also happens
to be the secure way to do it
Right. Which I think was was really nice.
And we've definitely, like, taken advantage of that
all over the place.
Yeah. Yeah. When you make the easy path,
the secure path, that's always a good design
decision.
So Well, in in a code review, right,
like, you can you can see that somebody's,
you know, jumping through eight hoops to get
the address to be instead
of just authorizing it. And you can see
you can sort of tell, like, this is
an awkward way to do this. Why didn't
you just call the easy way? Why did
you walk around the building to get there?
You know? So
Yeah.
Makes sense. Makes sense.
So let's dig into the
the authorization
stuff a little bit more. Now I don't
understand
I I I don't know the commercial side
of the the chain guard business here. Right?
Does anyone
with a login can pull any image as
many times as they want, or does the
authorization and authentication
go a bit deeper than that where certain
organizations can put certain images with certain number
of times? Like, are you using SpiceDB based
on the Zanzibar paper, or is it, like,
a flat of authorization
across the board?
Great question. We
don't have rate limits for
anything.
For for our public free tier developer tier
images
or
paying customers, we have we have no rate
limits.
All of that comes with the the caveat
that every service has a rate limit imposed
by physics.
So,
you can't possibly you know, you can't send
us 10,000,000,000,000 requests a second. Something will blow
up. But, we try not to impose artificial
rate limits on anything.
And a lot of that comes from, like
we were talking before, using r two. It's
not like you pulling our image, you know,
a thousand times is gonna cost us a
thousand times more than the first time. So
by all means, pull away.
We,
we don't use SpiceDB.
We have our own,
our own IAM
model that we
base heavily on Kubernetes'
and GCP's
IAM model. It's a lot, I think, simpler
or at least simpler for now. We don't
have hundreds of roles or hundreds of permissions.
We have, I think, maybe
two dozen, a dozen.
But, you know, ask again in three years
and see if we're up to the 350,000
roles that I am or I am roles
that GCP or AWS has.
Okay.
Cool.
Interesting. Alright. So
now you were
I don't know if you were being polite
or naive. Right? I I think that's the
two choices we have.
But you talked about Google's default service account
for, like, Cloud Run functions being permissive and
it's you know, you don't wanna scare people
away in the first five minutes.
I always thought
was a bit more sinister. That's just terrible
word. It's like they want you to be
able to go and use all the other
cloud products. Right? They want you to hook
them to go to their scale. They want
you to use BigQuery. They want you to
it's just like, yeah. Sure. Yeah. See, use
whatever you want. The bell just keeps going
up and up and up. Like, woo. Go
nuts. You
and the chain guard as a whole, like,
like, the, you know, the big you.
You do hook into more of GCP's
services. I've seen BigQuery on the article, and
you mentioned Cloud SQL as well. So, like,
is that, again, an operational concern where you
don't want to take on the burden of
running your own post credits, etcetera? Or
do were were you always just gonna use
cloud products first? Like, I'm curious about that
decision process.
Yeah. I think,
in general, I think it makes sense to
think
about whether,
like, whether your expertise is database maintenance,
whether the company's whether the company, you know,
differentiates
the business differentiates on how well it can
manage
a SQL database. And if that is your
if that is your competitive advantage, and there
are there are definitely
businesses and companies that that is their competitive
advantage,
then by all means, run it yourself. Right?
Vanguard's
not
differentiating on how well it can run a
a database. So we just want one that
works and is reliable and, you know, relatively
low touch to get the job done. I'm
sure it's not optimized to the to the
ends of the earth. I'm sure there's stuff
we could do that if we if we,
wanted to make it, a little better.
But, you know, ultimately, that's that's not where
we where we differentiate from anybody else. On
the other side, like, building the best images
possible is where we differentiate, and so we
have invested a lot in on that side.
Right? And if
if we had spent a bunch of time
building our own database, building our own
AMS, building our own secret store, built all
of this stuff, which, you know, as an
infra nerd, I would love to. Right? Like,
know, please let me go do this. But
instead, they tell me I have to, like,
build images or something.
Yeah.
You know, it's it's it's about, like, really
trying to think about what
where your time is most useful,
and
managing our own Postgres was not that. So
we Right. We luckily had Cloud SQL right
there. We pulled it off the shelf. We
use it.
You know? If if at some point our
database becomes
our our bottleneck, if that's if that and
and sometimes it is. But if if it
becomes our biggest fire, like, we will invest
in
making that better and tuning it better. And
if that means we run it ourselves, then
that means we run it ourselves. But I
don't think that would be our first choice.
You did mention Not mine anyway.
Not to put you on the spot. Right?
But you did mention at the start that
some of this migration was also cost driven.
And, like, maybe it's just a Scottish person
in me. Right? But I we you know,
we're known globally as as quite tight fisted
people. We're cheap.
I keep looking at the price of VCPUs
and manage postgrads, and I'm like, nah. Nuh-uh.
I'm gonna I'm I'm gonna make this at
home. And I I often will run my
databases on
bare metal or a virtual machine even though
the operational costs are astronomical because I have
to do my own backups and stuff. But
Yeah. I mean But you have the knowledge
for it. Products.
But, like, David, you have the knowledge for
it. Like, it's it's a business decision. Right?
Like, in the end, this is a business
decision. You're evaluating the cost
of buying versus the cost of managing a
team, like having
dedicated people who may be busy or not
busy. They may just kind of be sitting
there. I don't know. Like, this is how
I always looked at it. You you can
look at it the same way as,
let's say, if you have a lawn, if
you have grass.
Maybe you do, maybe you don't. Depends on
where you live. Do you mow it yourself?
How much is your time worth versus do
you pay for lawn care service?
Everybody has a different risk question there.
But
how much is your hourly pay, David?
Think about it that way. And, like, how
much is that hourly pay and maintaining all
of the tooling and maintaining all of those
things versus
calling somebody who's a specialist who has the
really big tools. So
I look out at the lawn that we
have in the backyard of the house that
we rent.
And
sure, we could get, like, a little push
lawn mower and one of us could spend
time mowing that lawn. Or we could pay
a service that has one of those massive
ride on lawn mowers, which I think are
really cool and I keep wanting to get
on when they're not looking, but they
don't notice me.
And they come and they do it in,
like, ten minutes, what would take me at
least an hour, and then I have to
also get rid of all the stuff that's
there. It's the same idea of do I
run my own Postgres server and my own
Postgres database
knowing that maybe I don't have the best
understanding of how it works, so therefore, who
knows how secure I really am because I'm
doing it myself?
Or
do I buy it until I can get
to the point where I can hire the
people and have a team that can maintain
it? That's really the business question.
Maybe I'm wrong, David. You can correct me.
But this is, like, how I've always looked
at this. So No. I I agree. And
you mentioned at the end, like, hiring folks
to do that. There's also a recruiting and
expertise sort of question. Right? Like, we we,
and this is related to our,
to
what our our
differentiated
you know, our our value proposition is. But,
like, we haven't really hired
database
tuning experts. We haven't really hired, you know,
Postgres operators
experts.
We could do it. I'm sure we could
we could muddle through and, you know, if
David can do it, then anybody can. But
then
Oh, alright. Sorry.
But, you know, we would we would rather
spend that that limited resource of time and
and energy on,
you know, the product and on on improving
the build pipeline and improving the, you know,
serving infrastructure that that is differentiated from from
other folks. And there's a hidden cost that
Let's back up a minute. Hold on. Hold
on. Sorry. I'm cutting you off. I didn't
mean it. I didn't mean it.
David's like, I have to get my revenge
here. Hold on a minute. Sorry. No. No.
No. No. No. But the the what the
CNCF wants us all to believe is that
we just run a Kubernetes cluster. We stick
the cloud data PG operator on it or
any operator for any software, and this is
all done for us. No expense here. Like,
open source is wonderful.
Like
Okay.
Okay. There is such a thing as a,
you know, free as in beer or free
as in puppies.
Like Yeah. Yep. Where where can I get
a free puppy?
Hey. I have plenty of places to send
you one. But, you
know, free Puppy doesn't mean forever free.
It's an illusion. I I think there's also
a a
when it works well,
it's free. When it's you know, I I
can, in the five minute tutorial timeline,
like, spin up Cloud Native PG and have
it running and do a hello world and
insert, you know, a thousand rows and feel
good.
The
day two is another thing, and then day,
you know, 390
is another one that, like, oh, no. It
was really easy to insert a thousand rows.
It's also easy to insert
20,000,000
rows. And now what? And and
so not that we wouldn't have this problem
on a managed database either. Right? We we
still do, But at least we don't have
to
there's a lot of operating stuff that we
don't have to care about.
See, the worst thing is I know David
is explicitly
nerd sniping a little bit. He's doing it
on purpose, and I'm falling into it just
as much as anybody else.
Hey. I'm just enjoying those talking. That that
that is no sniping. But but I will
say, right, you mentioned something like, obviously, you
know, people listening, they're making these decisions every
day. Do I go and pay for the
managed service? Do I get an operator? Do
we run it ourselves? Right? Jason's already gave
us great advice.
Focus on what your company needs to excel
at. Right? I think that's that's ubiquitous to
everyone should take that away. But we are
missing something here. Right? It's easy for me
to say I'm gonna run my own Postgres
when it gets, like, 10 queries a week
or 10 queries an hour or whatever that
number is. So maybe,
you know, you don't mention us in the
article, and I don't know if I wanna
put you on the spot and say give
us numbers. Right? I'm assuming your scale as
in in the hundreds
of requests per day, probably not even in
the
thousands of requests. I'm assuming we're going higher.
I don't know how much you're willing to
share there, you know, any context you wanna
provide?
Vanguard gets more traffic than my personal blog,
if that is the question you are you
are asking. Nice.
Yeah.
Yeah. I think I think the the answer
to everything is it depends. Right? Like, I'm
gonna put on my my senior engineer hat
and say it depends. I knew that was
coming. If this is
if
you
are receiving more traffic than you can handle,
you figure out why, you figure out what
the solution is. If you are not,
not currently experiencing that problem,
go fix the problem you are currently experiencing.
Right? It's never set in stone. It's never
you know, we're never even this you know,
even while I was writing the the article
about our migration to Cloud Run, we were
making new changes to that stuff. We were,
like, adding new stuff and tweaking stuff and
and moving stuff around. So it's never even
now, it's not done. It was just sort
of a birthday, like, one year since we
started this.
You may look at this. If you're reading
this in the year 2026
listener,
you may go back and look at this
blog post and say, oh, it's all different
now. Right? Like, it's all you know, they
said that they did everything this way, and
now they're using magical
global Cloud Run services. And GCLB is deprecated
and, you know, whatever.
So,
yeah, it's never done. Yeah.
Alright. Let's
I I know I know we're getting to
the end. I just I wanna just highlight
one thing.
This was a lot of technical debt that
you had to convince leadership to let you
go fix.
That that's a lot to pay down that
you had to kinda catch up on to
be able to say, hey. We need time
to be able to go do this.
In,
like, thirty seconds,
how did you do it?
Because that is, like, the the holy grail
of, like, every infrastructure team ever
is convincing your leadership that, hey. We need
to completely change what we're doing now that
we've scaled differently.
So Yeah.
It's complicated.
I thought so. It depends. Oh, yeah. The
the
it helped a lot that we
I'm gonna I'm gonna throw Matt under the
bus. Matt is our CTO and and sort
of, you know, originally led this this decision.
Having him on board from the start was
helpful. Right? Like, it was his idea. It
wasn't, like, our idea, and then we had
to convince him.
He
did a fairly thorough cost analysis of, this
is what it costs now to run both
Mhmm. The prod environment, the staging environment, and
everyone's developer environments.
I think this is too much, and I
think the trend, you know,
going up means
it will get worse the longer we put
it off. So,
that definitely helped.
He,
also just sort of started
doing it, like, not not, like, migrating us
for real, but, like, demonstrating,
hey. This is how easy it is to
run the service in Cloud Run instead of,
on Knative. Here's how easy it is to
get GCLB to work. I think it was,
like, a a weekend of of hacking for
him or maybe a week to, like, get
a demo environment that was entirely in Cloud
Run. Not production ready, not ready to start
migrating to, but, like, hey. It's not as
hard as you think. It won't be a
nine month, you know, gigantic
engineering slog to do. If we rip the
Band Aid relatively quickly, we can, you know,
get this done and and make the line
go down instead of up.
All of those are very helpful ways to
convince folks that these are useful
migrations and not just engineers being nerd sniped
and loving migrating
for migrating sake. Not that I've ever done
that. But,
yeah, sort of, like,
forecasting the cost, understanding the cost now,
and forecasting it and saying,
if we don't do anything,
this will be a cost in a year.
If we do it now, then we
upfront that cost and have much less over
time. Right.
Alright.
I got one more question, Orest.
Now,
again, you you just mentioned dev environments. Now
a common
challenge when I'm, you know, talking to people
or working with companies is the more they
move to the cloud, it typically, their development
environments get a little bit harder. Right? It's
not just running a gold binary that speaks
to a local Postgres,
which is okay for Cloud SQL. But when
you're using KMS for secrets, you're using PubSub
for, you know, webhook receivers and all these
other bits and pieces. Maybe you can talk
about the developer experience of working on this
on your own machine and how that compares
to what you ship to production.
Yeah.
We every every engineer that has you know,
that touches the infrastructure has their own developer
environment.
In this case, developer environment means
GCP project,
Cloud Run service,
you know, Constellation,
Cloud SQL, KMS,
etcetera, etcetera.
If you
want to run this any of this or
if you want to run any of this
locally,
most of the time, you can. If it
talks to KMS, you need to, like, you
know, set up the auth to be able
to do that. If it talks to Cloud
SQL, whatever, you need to do that.
So
but if it's just, you know, two services
talking to each other or a service talking
to r two to create a signed URL
or something,
you can run it locally. I think, generally,
it's gotten easy enough to run-in Cloud Run
that we just do that. Like, if it's
if it's not
if it's as easy to get the real
actual environment up as it is to run
it, you know, two or three services locally
and talking to each other, then we'll just
put it in the real one and and
run it there.
It's not, like,
as easy as running it locally a lot
of times, but but, generally,
like, if you're about to do something that
integrates with another service or Cloud SQL or
or
KMS or r two, like, just run it
in Cloud Run, and it's it's fine.
That was actually a a a big benefit
of this in the first place was that,
like, everyone's developer environment was a significant cost
when we had, you know, Kubernetes clusters to
our you know, multiples of them in each
developer environment.
Not just in terms in terms of, like,
unused infrastructure,
but, like,
okay. It's been three months since I last
had to make an infra change.
First, I have to get my cluster back,
like, into a working state. Right? I'm gonna
spend a whole day just, like, kind of
getting
the cluster back into a workable state, and
then I can finally start working on my
service.
With Cloud Run, there's a lot less
bit rot happening underneath you. It's just sort
of that service not none, but a little
you know, most of that service is already
just sort of running there, and it costs
nothing while you're not using it, which
no one you know? I think my developer
environment gets less traffic than my personal blog.
I love that to skip for all of
our conversations. It's like Jason's blog in the
middle of it. Less than Is it bigger
or smaller than my blog?
Alright. Well, thank you so much for for
sharing all that. I mean, it's
we don't even talk about bedqueeny, but I
don't really wanna keep you too much longer.
But, you know
Oh my I got nowhere to be.
And I don't have a real job, so,
I mean, I can sit here for as
long as you want.
And, yeah, Laura got made unemployed, so I
guess we're sat here for a while. Well,
just for another,
what, thirty six hours, I guess. So
Oh, wow. We can get that long.
Alright. So we're here for thirty six more
hours. Keep it running. Alright. Let's do this.
Livestream time.
Anyway Well, there's this ongoing meme online. Right?
Like, when people
I don't know if you've ever searched for
the Cloud Run and BigQuery. I do this
regularly as I'm exploring.
But people often argue over what is the
best GCP service between Cloud Run and BigQuery.
They're like, they're both exceptional
Wait. Products.
Are
over Not arguing, but there's just a there's
a debate. Because Cloud Run and BigQuery give
you so much for free.
Like, they're both just these stupid amazing products.
And So so which one have it. Which
one's more valuable is what is what, I
guess, people are arguing. Now this is interesting.
I don't
I don't get involved in these
meme arguments.
Meme argument? Is that, a thing?
I just kind of exist
and
find out about these things on the fringes
of the Internet when you tell me about
them. So
Well, yes. It's I mean, it's it's not
common because that would be tragic. Right? If
people would just go on to Google and
go, which one's better? But, you know, when
it comes down to all of GCP's products,
I think that the two shine and torches
are Cloudron and BigQuery. They both cost Right.
Pennies
at really decent scale.
Yeah. And I BigQuery is one of these
things that I've never personally had a use
case to really dive into properly
because, again, I I'd be,
you know, throwing a tennis ball down a
large collider or whatever. I don't that's a
horrible analogy, but I didn't have anything. Right?
So,
yeah, I was just curious about the BigQuery
stuff. Like, at what point do you decide
that, yeah, we're gonna use BigQuery? Because I've
never been there personally, and I'd love to
know more.
Yeah. We
for the record, I would say Cloud Run
is the better service, and I will fight
you if you disagree. I'm just I'm just
kidding.
We probably also don't you I'm not. I'm
really not. That's the title of the episode
now. Jason says Cloud Run is better than
BigQuery. There we go. Hey, man. I don't
need people
to find out on the Internet. Everyone's gonna
go to your blog, and then you're gonna
have to come up with a new skill.
But then Yeah. There we go.
I have to run Postgres now.
What was I saying? Oh Either way, the
no. Also don't use we probably also don't
use BigQuery for
something that actually needs BigQuery. There's there's also
the meme of, like, your dataset fits in
memory. You know? Like, if if you are
you don't need, you know, BigQuery and managed
services for nearly everything you use it for.
We probably don't.
But, again, the nice thing is that it's
a managed service that we just sort of,
like, plop data into and can query later.
That could be cloud SQL. I think we
just like having the not
having to care about the scale of these
things and just toss it into BigQuery, and
and and it works.
Thing we use BigQuery heavily for, which I
which I do like a lot, is our
eventing infrastructure. We didn't get to talk much
about our eventing infrastructure.
But, basically, like, you know,
when a push happens when a when an
image push happens, an event is fired inside
of our system, and it bounces around, and
things can subscribe to it. That's built on
PubSub.
One of the subscribers to that PubSub is
a recorder that records every event into BigQuery.
So every
thing that happens, every time anything happens,
it is emitted into the the event pipe
and recorded.
And so that is something that's really nice
to and we don't even think about it.
Like, most of the time, it's just like
there is a log of every event somewhere.
But when you want to go find that
and when you wanna say, like, oh, a
GitHub pull request was opened that was approved
that did this, that pushed this image, that
did this, You
have this sort of log of everything to
to
quickly go through and and visualize. We also
use these things for, like,
you know, generating
dashboards and graphs of, like, are people which
customers are pulling which images and which free
tier images are most popular and and things
like that. So
Oh.
Yeah. I bet your security team really loves
that, though, because
one of the biggest things about logging that
I always find people don't realize is you
need a read only archive that no one
can actually change.
Every single logging system should have a read
only archive of everything. That way if somebody
does access the system because usually what they'll
try to do is they'll go in and
then they'll change the logs so that they
hide their tracks.
But Right. If it's pre logged into BigQuery,
they can't go in and just change it,
hopefully. Maybe they could. They If they have
the right permissions. But Anyone can do anything.
But I know. I know. But, like, I
like to dream that's a possibility. I don't
know. But But the to your to your
point is that the reporter service that that,
you know, listens to every event and writes
it to BigQuery is the only service that
or the only account that has access to
write to that dataset. Yeah. There we go.
We also have an alert
set up for if any user besides this
modifies the the dataset or or, you know,
reads certain GCS buckets or, you know, does
certain things that they shouldn't be doing. We
call them the lasers. Matt calls them the
lasers.
You will trip a laser and, like, fire
an alert and and, you know, notify our
Slack that, like, someone was editing that dataset
in BigQuery. That's weird. Right? Yeah. You can
also turn off the lasers. They sufficiently you
know, smart person or or
a a motivated
person could disable the lasers, but it's nice
to have another sort of Yeah. Like, layer
of defense there. Yeah. Always a good thing.
Yeah. But the the attack factor here is
internal.
So I guess there's also
it's it's well, you're you're not looking for
malicious activity on the outside trying to deactivate
your lasers like it's, you know, robbery or
anything like that. This is more of Well,
and it it
it tends to show up with a Slack
alert went off that, like, some coworker was,
you know, touching this GCS bucket or something.
And and they'll respond to that in Slack
and say, yeah. That was me. I was
debugging this thing. This is what you know?
Or that laser is overly sensitive. We should,
you know, detune it so that it's not,
you know, gonna bug Slack every time I
check my email or something.
Yeah. Don't know. It's not good. I wish
I could know when they check their email,
though. That would be nice. They're just avoiding
us. I know.
Alright. I mean, I guess the GCS bucket
thing ties into your usage of Terraform as
well, which we didn't really talk about other
than the fact that there's a module. But
I'm assuming all your state files live in
Terraform. So if anyone were to go in
there and start manipulating that, there would be
a laser as well. I like this concept
of lasers. I would have to start building
lasers.
We have, there's examples in the repo of
our of our lasers around,
certain things. If a if a human accesses
a service account key,
like, that is a event. That is a
it's something that a person should never be
doing.
Even if they have permission to, we don't
want we don't want you to be unrecorded
doing that.
See, this is this is something that you
you've told David this now, and this is
how we get Skynet.
If Dave is just going back time.
Eddie. Alright. I think we should finish on
stuff in controversial.
So
Oh, no. We haven't been being controversial.
Okay.
Sure. Okay. Better than BigQuery.
I mean, we've already beat we've we've checked
off the meme. Right? Now we can drop
into
open source OSI definitions and talk about why
Terraform over OpenTofu.
Have we have we argued about Go and
Python yet? We haven't done that yet this
episode.
Go and Rust. No. Rust. Rust. It was
Rust.
Was rest that we need to talk about.
Right. Right.
We almost have all the memes going. Okay.
We almost made it one episode. So me
having to say Russ Lora, and then then
you just you poke the bear.
Poke. Poke. Poke. Poke. Anyway,
so so what are we thinking? Yeah. I
mean, with
no. Back on track. We're almost done with
this thing. Right? Why not open tofu? Was
that even in consideration, or is it, like,
you don't see the
It it is a consideration. I would say,
mainly, we are still floating on inertia of
having used Terraform so far.
Yeah. I don't think any of us have
any
reason not to use OpenTofu.
A couple of or at least one person
at ChangeRad, John, has contributed to OpenTofu to
make it faster, to make it more performant,
and I think we would
love to migrate to it. It's just an
another migration to to consider and and prioritize
with the rest. We have we have nothing
but love for OpenTofu,
and we'll we'll migrate to it whenever we
can.
That wasn't that controversial. So you need to
come up with more controversial questions. But I
I guess you could say, so you have
nothing for love but o for Open Tofu,
but there's a but in there. Okay.
There there's the controversy. Anyway, I'll stop now.
It's alright. We'll we'll deepfake his voice and
put in something spicy.
Okay.
Good. Good. There's AI. We added AI into
this. Okay. What else do we need to
add in going on right now?
If you say cryptic Alright. No. No. No.
No.
Has been this
has been really cool. And, you know, it's
a really interesting project. The blog is fantastic.
People should go read it. The open source
modules examples, I think, are universally adoptable and
stealable to anyone listening that just wants to
go and do some of this stuff, which
is really awesome as well.
I'll finish I mean, I don't know if
Laura has anything else, but I'll say I'll
finish with this. I keep saying one more
question, and I'm giving you, like, another six.
But, you know, you've said
twice now that if we come back in
twelve months or three months, it'll all be
different. I'm curious. Over the next three, six,
and nine months, what is your next what's
your next mission? What do you think will
change? What are you wanting to experiment with?
Like, what's on your road map?
Focus. Focus. Focus. I have to only do
one thing for each of these things. I
mentioned the three sort of pillars of infrastructure
we have. The serving infrastructure, I think, is
really solid. We just recently
are wrapping up sort of an investment in
our package build infrastructure.
I think the image build infrastructure is the
next
the next oldest pillar. Maybe we'll just bounce
between all three and just, like, keep,
improving them in in shifts. But, yeah, the
image build infrastructure is something I think we'd
we'd, I would love to start improving more.
I don't think that would be a three
or six month timeline thing. I would love
for it to be.
What was the rest of your question?
Focus. Focus.
Focus. Yeah. Great. I mean There's so many
there's so many one thing because this is
this is why you're shipping, and I'm sitting
here. I've got 12 plates that you can't
see off camera that I have to go
spend. That's why I had to reconnect everything.
That's like, I just I can't stop messing
with everything. So I really
it's it always amazes me when people are
able to we're gonna do this one thing
and and I'm just like, I
Very cool. I I think my coworkers listening
to this and hearing you say that I'm
very good at focus will be laughing very,
very much.
Oh, then they need to go work with
David for a little while and then see
it all I hope that a place. Yeah.
I mean, have you even bought a today?
Have what? I haven't. Have you even bought
a domain today? I mean, come on. Yeah.
It's early. It's early here. There's plenty of
time. There you go. There you go.
Well, my my one thing is just, hey.
Congratulations
on getting through, like, some technical debt fixes
for infrastructure that
like, that is the holy grail for every
operations person ever. So congratulations
on surviving that. Yeah. There's there's plenty more
where that came from too. Yeah. It's just
you know? I mean, every little bit of
debt that we can pay down is always
quite nice. Yeah.
So
Alright. Well, thank you so much for your
time. Any final departing words for the audience
before we say goodbye?
No.
Well, now I've known you for an hour,
and I still think you're a cool person.
So thank you so much for coming Yeah.
Thank you. Her next time. Okay.
Alright. We'll be back at twelve months to
see what's changed. Hope you all have a
good day. Take care. Thanks,
guys.
Thanks for joining us. If you wanna keep
up with us, consider subscribing to the podcast
on your favorite podcasting app or even go
to CloudNativeCompass.fm.
And if you want us to talk with
someone specific or cover a specific topic,
reach out to us on any social media
platform. Until next time when exploring the cloud
native landscape
on three.
On three. One,
two,
three.
Don't forget your compass. Forget your compass.